Q1. Explain CSS Grid and how it differs from Flexbox. When would you use Grid over Flexbox?
A.  CSS Grid is a two-dimensional layout system, allowing you to position elements across both rows and columns simultaneously,while Flexbox is a one-dimensional layout system, meaning you can only arrange items in a single row or column at a time; use Grid when you need to create complex layouts with precise control over element placement across multiple rows and columns, whereas Flexbox is better suited for aligning items within a single row or column, particularly when you need to dynamically distribute space between them.

Q2. Describe the grid-template-columns, grid-template-rows, and grid-gap properties. Provide examples of how to use them.
A.  In CSS Grid Layout, grid-template-columns defines the structure of a grid by specifying the number and width of columns, grid-template-rows does the same for the rows, and grid-gap sets the space between grid lines, allowing you to control the spacing between both rows and columns within a grid container.
    Explanation:
        grid-template-columns:
            Syntax: 
            grid-template-columns: <track-size> [ <track-size> ]*;
            Values:
                Pixel values: Sets a fixed width for each column (e.g., grid-template-columns: 100px 200px 150px;)
                Percentages: Sets a column width relative to the container (e.g., grid-template-columns: 25% 50% 25%;)
                fr unit: Distributes available space proportionally (e.g., grid-template-columns: 1fr 2fr 1fr;)
                auto: Automatically sizes columns based on content (e.g., grid-template-columns: auto auto auto;)

            grid-template-rows:
                Syntax: grid-template-rows: <track-size> [ <track-size> ]*;
                Functionality: Identical to grid-template-columns, but applies to row heights.

            grid-gap:
                Syntax: grid-gap: <length>;
                Values: Pixel values, percentages, or other length units
                Behavior: Sets the space between all grid lines (both columns and rows) 